[Music]
hello earthlings
I'm Alan and I live in the same solar
system as you do but the chances will
ever meet are almost non-existent
since my solar system and yours exist in
parallel worlds and in my world people
do not live on earth because our Sun is
twice smaller than yours what's the
connection well grab some popcorn I'll
tell you a story you've probably never
thought how much the way you live on
earth depends on the size of the Sun and
if at first sight there seems to be no
connection let me surprise you the Sun
in your world is a yellow dwarf a
perfect sphere of scorching plasma
generating a magnetic field 24/7 despite
being called a dwarf it's mass is 330
thousand times bigger than that of the
planet you live on and the diameter of
this giant is more than 800 64,000 miles
do I sound like I'm envious that's
because I am but as you remember in my
world the Sun is half the size of your
star and it's a game-changer because
this makes our Sun a red dwarf it
happened many centuries ago something
went wrong and our star started to lose
its mass after that it grew cooler
darker and eventually turned into a red
dwarf now in your universe the closest
red dwarf to your planet is Proxima
Centauri which is around four
light-years away these stars are long
livers of the universe and our Sun is
likely to shine for another several
trillion years before it becomes a blue
door but despite such an optimistic
scenario when our Sun turned into a red
dwarf it meant the end of life on our
native planet earth you see red dwarf
stars are much colder than let's say
yellow dwarfs and though our Sun used to
have a temperature of nine
900 degrees Fahrenheit just like the Sun
in your world after all the catastrophic
changes its temperature dropped to six
thousand four hundred degrees that's why
the habitable zone around our Sun
meaning the region where liquid water
could remain on the surface of a planet
shrunk dramatically
sadly earth turned out to be out of the
sun's habitable zone of course people
didn't feel the changes immediately the
climate all over the planet was getting
colder and colder and astronomers
forecast were getting grimmer at first
it became impossible to live too close
to the North and the South Poles people
started migrating closer to the equator
many animals and plant species were
going extinct despite all human attempts
to save them in special zoos and
greenhouses quite soon half of the
planet turned into an icy desert people
had huge problems with food and other
resources the overall temperature
dropped to minus 18 degrees factories
were straining to produce enough warm
clothes and electrical equipment to help
people survive during the new Ice Age
but even though the inhabitants of Earth
hoped that the process would somehow
reverse the situation was getting worse
every next day was darker than the
previous one dimmer Sun meant that
plants didn't have enough light to
convert it into energy they started to
wither and animals that fed on them
couldn't find food and disappeared from
the surface of the planet panic and fear
were enveloping her
even worse this process was going much
faster than it could also due to the
decreasing size of the Sun the size of a
star is directly connected with its
gravity and since the Sun was becoming
smaller its gravitational pull on our
planet was getting weaker and it didn't
take long until earth changed its orbit
to a wider one now it was moving even
further from the Sun receiving even less
sunlight and continuing to cool down our
planet and its inhabitants struggled a
bit longer but it was easy to predict
the outcome
finally our beautiful earth turned into
a lifeless chunk of rock covered with a
thick layer of ice ah but I can guess
what you're thinking now how come I'm
still talking to you if my planet has
become uninhabitable
that's because unsurprisingly people
don't live on earth anymore with the Sun
turned into a red dwarf the solar system
we had known disappeared as you might
remember the stars gravitational pull
decreased along with its size that's why
the gas giants further from the Sun like
Uranus Saturn Neptune and Jupiter simply
drifted away and if you just thought hmm
is it such a big deal let me explain
something Saturn and especially Jupiter
used to partially protect smaller
planets including earth from asteroids
until these giants left the solar system
they worked hard catching big comets
into their gravitational field and then
tearing them into small pieces
scientists claim that these gas giants
got hit by different space objects 8,000
times more often than Earth plus thanks
to gas giants small space objects that
still manage to sneak past them got
ejected out of the solar system faster
but without this protection cosmic
debris presented real danger what's more
some space objects form ginormous clouds
that try to move closer toward the Sun
they look like the icy org Club
still have in your world but much closer
to the center of the solar system and
the place where we're living now
these clouds take ages to disperse and
they tend to send debris toward our new
home and talking about the planet humans
inhabit these days it's mercury I know I
know
mercury in your world isn't the most
hospitable place this planet is closest
to the Sun and the smallest in the solar
system with its lack of an atmosphere
and extreme temperatures it's one of the
most people unfriendly places you can
only imagine if our Sun hadn't turned
into a red dwarf and Earth hadn't become
uninhabitable we would have never
considered mercury as our new home the
ice-covered polar regions of the planet
are in permanent darkness it makes these
areas incredibly cold and closer to the
equator daytime temperature can rise up
to 800 degrees but after the sunset it
almost immediately drops to minus 290
degrees that's what I call extreme
temperatures Mercury's year runs on for
88 Earth days well one day on this
planet lasts for about 59 Earth days but
that's in your world warm by a massive
superhot star in my world Mercury ended
up as the only planet where humans
wouldn't have frozen it was right inside
the new habitable zone if you remember I
mentioned that our Sun hadn't lost twice
its mass overnight and although this
process was fast our scientists and
engineers managed to find a way to
relocate the whole planet's population
along with most animals and plants to
Mercury
it's rather crowded here these days but
at least we're all alive
don't think that our new home was
overjoyed to see us we had tons of
different often unpredictable problems
and obstacles of course the planet
wasn't that mind bogging Li hot and cold
anymore its climate had become softer
and milder much more suitable for people
liquid water appeared which was great
news for us but other conditions didn't
improve not even a bit mercury still
doesn't have any breathable atmosphere
that's why I can't take a relaxed stroll
outside with my pooch we live in towns
covered with protective domes and go
outside only after putting on a special
suit I guess it looks like an astronaut
suit and is just as heavy and when it's
particularly windy we can't leave our
towns if we absolutely must we don't
wander too far away and never depart
without a special rope attached to our
suits all because our new planets
gravity is more than twice weaker than
it used to be on earth and if you don't
take precautions you can be blown far
away into the atmosphere by the way
about the atmosphere the gravitational
pull on mercury isn't strong enough to
keep the atmosphere in place that's why
it gets regularly blown away by solar
winds we also have to be very careful
with the sun's radiation yeah this star
isn't as big or as bright as before but
it still emits enough radiation to end
your life
should you step outside without special
protection but other than that mercury
is an impressive place to be it's the
most cratered planet of the solar system
the result of countless clashes with
comets and asteroids and the largest
impact crater on the planet called the
Caloris Basin is almost one thousand
miles across it's great for sightseeing
mercury also has wrinkles that appeared
when its iron ore was cooling and
contracting these wrinkles are called
lobate scarps and most of them are
hundreds of miles long and almost a mile
high what a view
hey if you learned something new today
then give the video a like and
share with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life